== After the Third War ==

Thrall led the orcs to the continent of Kalimdor, where they founded a new homeland with the help of their tauren brethren.
Naming their new land Durotar after Thrall's murdered father, the orcs settled down to rebuild their once-glorious society.
The demonic curse on their kind ended, the Horde changed from a bloodthirsty, warlike juggernaut into more of a loose coalition, dedicated to survival and prosperity rather than conquest.
Aided by the noble tauren and the cunning trolls of the Darkspear tribe, Thrall and his orcs looked forward to a new era of peace in their own land.
From there, they began the creation of the great warrior city, Orgrimmar.
Named after the former Warchief, Orgrim Doomhammer, the new city was constructed in a short amount of time, with the aid of goblins, tauren, trolls, and the Mok'Nathal Rexxar.
Despite having some problems with the centaur, harpies, enraged thunder lizards, kobolds, evil orcish warlocks, quilboars, Orgrimmar prospered in the end and became home to the orcs and Darkspear Trolls.

== World of Warcraft ==

Named in honor of the legendary Orgrim Doomhammer, Orgrimmar was founded as the capital city of the orcs' new homeland.
Built within a huge, winding canyon in the harsh land of Durotar, Orgrimmar stands as one of the mightiest warrior cities in the world.
Behind Orgrimmar's immense walls, elderly shaman pass their knowledge on to the Horde's newest generation of leaders, while warriors spar in the gladiatorial arena, honing their skills in preparation for the trials that await them in this dangerous land.

Today, Orgrimmar lies at the base of a mountain between Durotar and Azshara.
A warrior city indeed, it is home to countless amounts of orcs, trolls, tauren, and an increasing amount of Forsaken are now joining the city, as well as the blood elves and Bilgewater Cartel goblins who have more recently been accepted into the Horde.

== Wrath of the Lich King ==

During the War against the Lich King, Putress betrayed Forsaken.
Sylvanas and her loyal Forsaken took the refuge in Orgrimmar.
From there, Sylvanas, Thrall and horde adventurers returned and liberated Undercity.
During that time, all merchants and services have been shut down as the Warchief prepared for an unavoidable conflict.

== Shattering: Prelude to Cataclysm ==

After the War against the Lich King and War against the Nightmare were over, a great celebration was held in honor of Garrosh and those who died and survived on Northrend.
Nevertheless, raging fire elements burned plenty buildings in Orgrimmar and the city needed to repair.
Thrall asked Gazlowe to do so and determined to set off to Nagrand in order to help raging elements.
Before leaving, in Grommash Hold Thrall appointed Garrosh to lead the Horde.

== Cataclysm ==

Garrosh Hellscream has recently rebuilt most of the city’s architecture, and now Orgrimmar’s fortresses rank among the most imposing on Azeroth.
Spiked metal towers line the city’s streets, and the red-and-black banners of the Horde wave from every post.
Most of the various races have separated into their own districts, from the tauren in the Valley of Wisdom to the trolls in the Valley of Spirits.
Grommash Hold towers over all else, allowing Garrosh Hellscream to keep a close watch on his people.
There is also a district known as the \"Goblin Slums\" near the Valley of Spirits.
There is also a rear gate leading to Azshara.
The Valley of Honor has also become the second trade district, with its own bank, auction house and inn.

== Tides of War ==

With the Cataclysm over and the threat of Deathwing subsided, a summit of the Horde's leaders was held in Orgrimmar.
Here, Garrosh informed his allies about his desire to forcibly expel the Alliance from Kalimdor, and claim the continent for the good of the Horde.
Garrosh intended to scour Theramore from the continent, and stunt the Alliance's military presence.
With that done, he then aims to take the night elves' land.

After the successful destruction of Theramore, the battle force returned to Orgrimmar to celebrate their victory. Many cheers rose to Garrosh's victory.

== Escalation ==

Orgrimmar is effectively put under martial law, as Garrosh continues to opress the non-orc members of the city.
All non-orc districts of the city lose most of their supplies and are heavily guarded by the Kor'kron, under suspicion that they might be working with the rebels.
The supply lines to Orgrimmar from the Northern Barrens are cut off and Vol'jin has taken the strategic settlement of Razor Hill from Garrosh's loyalists, essentially putting the city under threat of siege from the rebellion to the south as well as the Alliance armada amassing to the east.

== Siege of Orgrimmar ==

During the Siege of Orgrimmar, the city is put under siege by the forces of the Horde rebels and the Alliance.
Kor'kron barricades block access to most of the city's districts.
Vol'jin's revolutionary forces have entrenched themselves along the main road, launching a frontal assault on the city's gates to break into the Valley of Strength.
Alliance frigates storm the Bladefist Bay and landing parties attempt to capture the docks around Orgrimmar.
Invading forces discover a massive underground compound constructed by Garrosh's forces for his own purposes.
Skirmishes at the gates occurred before a full-scale battle erupted between the forces led by Vol'jin and the defenders still loyal to Garrosh.
Despite Vol'jin's attempts to ram the gate and attack the walls with siege engines, the walls could not be breached. The arrival of a combined rebel and Alliance armada under the command of Lor'themar Theron, Varian Wrynn, Jaina Proudmoore, and Sylvanas Windrunner disabled Orgrimmar's naval defenses.
Eventually the Kor'kron were pushed back into the gates and the arrival of Night Elf reinforcements under Tyrande Whisperwind.
Night Elf glaive throwers brought the gate down, and the allied forces charged into Orgrimmar.
The Valley of Strength was quickly liberated, and the death of General Nazgrim brought the upper city under Alliance/rebel control.
The Underhold eventually fell when adventurers defeated and imprisoned the Warchief Garrosh.
Vol'jin was quickly nominated and initiated as the new Warchief by Thrall and the other Horde leaders.
Alliance forces left the city, and the rebels began rebuilding the damage that was done during the siege.

== Warlords of Draenor ==

Following the deposition of Garrosh, rebel forces began rebuilding the damage done to Orgrimmar during the siege and members of the Horde of all races began moving back to the city, resulting in a major population increase.
The newly elected Warchief Vol'jin has also taken up residence in Orgrimmar, ruling the Horde from Grommash Hold, while members of all races have formed a new city guard.
The Underhold has largely been vacated and its arsenal destroyed, and the trade routes previously blockaded during the siege have been restored and the city has begun to prosper again.
The Valley of Spirits and the Valley of Wisdom have also been liberated from Kor'kron control and have returned to normal.

</BODY></HTML>"}
