== Ancient history ==

Kun-Lai Summit originated as a place created by the titans.
The mountains of this land were shaped by Mogu hands before they succumbed to the Curse of Flesh.
Eventually, Kun Lai Summit was heavily contested along with the rest of Pandaria by several different Mogu clans.
Soon after, many different races of Pandaria, including the Mountain Hozen, Jinyu, and even early Pandaren farmers came to inhabit the region.
The Summit was watched over by Xuen, the White Tiger, who swore to protect the races of Kun Lai from outsiders.
When Lei Shen and his mogu legions marched upon Kun-Lai Summit, he gave the citizens the chance to remain free.
A single challenger was meant to face Lei Shen. If he won, Lei Shen would leave the lands alone.
However, if he lost, the citizens of Kun-Lai Summit would bow before the Thunder King.
His challenge was accepted by Xuen, and their battle raged for thirty days and thirty nights.
In the end, Lei Shen was triumphant, and the lands of Kun-Lai Summit were shortly thereafter conquered and enslaved by Lei Shen, with minimal opposition.

After the Pandaren revolution, and the Zandalari Troll Wars that followed, Kun-Lai Summit became a free state under control by the Pandaren Empire from their seat in the Jade Forest.

== Mists of Pandaria ==

The lands have been peaceful for the past ten thousand years, until outsiders arrived in Pandaria.
The war between the Horde and the Alliance and their negative emotions have awoken the Sha.
Even worse, the mantid to the east have forced the yaungol out of their homes in Townlong Steppes to breach the Serpent's Spine in order to break through and invade Kun-Lai.
The Yaungol invasion has left the Pandaren farmlands occupied and devastated, the invasion empowering the Sha even further.
The Shado-Pan Monastery has come under attack by the Sha of Hatred from within and the Sha of Anger has risen in the South with the heightened negative emotions.

To the north, Zouchin Province on the coastline of Kun-Lai has been experiencing very peaceful times for several years.
That was until a large Zandalari army led by Prophet Khar'zul and Gara'jal the Spiritbinder arrived on the shores and assaulted the Pandaren villages.
A large amount of the province's pandaren population was slaughtered in the process, and the Zandalari have regained their ancient alliance with the mogu through the mountains of Kun-Lai above Zouchin Province.
The Mogu have begun animating several terracotta and stone warriors to fuel their growing army which they intend to use to reclaim Pandaria.
The Zandalari have also gained possession of the body of Lei Shen, who they intend to resurrect.
Taking him to the Isle of Reckoning along with their Mogu allies, Prophet Khar'zul succeeded in resurrecting the fallen First Emperor.
The Zandalari then launched a full scale assault on Zouchin Village, while the Horde and Alliance managed to help the Pandaren villagers win a Pyrrhic victory over the rebels.
Most of the Mogu and Zandalari in Kun-Lai have since fled with the Thunder King to his island citadel, where they intend to unite into a single army commanded by Lei Shen to reconquer Pandaria for him.

== Landfall ==

Seeking the Divine Bell, Warchief Hellscream orders Horde forces to enter the region and discover its location.
The Alliance is also seeking the bell, determined to prevent the Warchief from acquiring the Mogu artifact.
In time both sides learn that the bell is hidden within the Ruins of Korune.
However in the race between factions to reach the artfaict, the Alliance is victorious.

== Vol'jin: Shadows of the Horde ==

After being attacked Vol'jin is rescued by Chen and taken to recover at the Shado-pan Monastery.
While there Vol'jin is plagued by visions which warns him of a Zandalari attack on the mainland.
Aided by Chen, Tyrathan Khort, and Shado-pan monks Vol'jin leads a strike against the Zandalari that ends up baiting them to the monastery where The Thirty-three are successfully able to beat the invaders back, despite the losses suffered.

	