== The Sundering ==

Darkshore was once one of the most prosperous regions of the Kaldorei empire, and great cities such as Ameth'Aran and Bashal'Aran were the pinnacle of civilization at that time.
Much of the coastline was destroyed in the Sundering, and it was many years before the night elves began to rebuild in the area.

After the Sundering, some night elves settled in the continent's northern reaches, on and near Mount Hyjal, including the port at the mountain's northern foot.
However, the few night elves in Darkshore left the area in the course of the Third War, moving to the safety of Mount Hyjal and the Moonglade.
A small number of night elves returned after the war to the cold and desolate beach to revive the port.
They dwelt in the village of Auberdine, which was used as a ferry outpost.

== Cataclysm ==

Darkshore took a heavy toll from the Shattering — its landscape was wrecked, perhaps more thoroughly than any other part of Azeroth.
Auberdine was completely destroyed, the ground was cracked and flooded with streams and whirlpools, and there are fires, storms and other hazards of nature ravaging the zone.
The night elves are in survival mode, helping refugees and, wherever they can, fending off the advances of the Twilight's Hammer cult, the naga, and the Shatterspear trolls.
Meanwhile, Malfurion Stormrage, recently returned from the Emerald Dream, has traveled to the epicenter of the destruction and called upon the ancient powers of Cenarius to contain it.

The Grove of the Ancients was shielded from most of the devastation caused by the Cataclysm, due in large part to the power of the ancient guardians residing therein.
Protecting the grove required an enormous amount of energy, though, and as a result, most of the guardians have gone into a sort of slumber.
Adventurers will have to figure out a way to wake them and bring them into the fight to ensure the survival of Darkshore.

The night elves built the town of Lor'danel further north from Aubderdine, in order to mantain some foothold on Darkshore.
The village is made up of new buildings, as the night elves cleared away the ruins they could not restore.
Most of the night elves currently living in Darkshore have focused their attention on reclaiming Auberdine and helping out any survivors that can be found.

After the Shattering, the Shatterspear trolls started establishing footholds on northern Darkshore, and the night elves have responded by scouting and preparing to defend the area from the seemingly hostile trolls.

