
Little is known of Elwynn's history before Stormwind was founded centuries ago by the Arathi bloodline of Stromgarde in Lordaeron.
Ever since humans first settled in the forest, it has thrived under their stewardship.

Elwynn Forest was captured by the Horde during their bloody campaign to Stormwind in the First War.
The resources culled from the bountiful woods helped fuel the Horde's war machine.
Much of the forests were razed as the orcs marched across Elwynn.
The town of Goldshire and the Abbey at Northshire were both tragically destroyed by the Horde.
When Stormwind fell to the orcs and Anduin Lothar led the humans to Lordaeron, the Stormreaver and Twilight's Hammer clans assumed domains in Elwynn forest.
When the humans of Stormwind finally retook their city at the end of the Second War, they regained Elwynn as well.
It cost the kingdom of Stormwind a significant amount of gold and resources to rebuild their broken homeland.
As a result, the kingdom's economy has flagged since it was rebuilt.
Many of the middle and lower classes became fed up with high taxes and unpaid labor in service of the kingdom.
Many of these dissidents defected to form the Defias Brotherhood (led by the Stonemasons Guild, the architects who reconstructed Stormwind and weren't paid anything).
The Brotherhood reaches into Elwynn Forest from time to time, preying on lone travelers, although their main center of operations lies somewhere in Westfall.
Some say they have a case against Stormwind, as they weren’t paid for their work rebuilding the city; others say they are whiners who charged too much in the first place.
Others (such as Brann Bronzebeard) did their work and were paid, and don’t understand the problems.
Still, against all the odds, Elwynn has returned to much of its former majesty and glory.
Northshire Abbey was rebuilt and has become a recruiting center of sorts for the Stormwind army.
Goldshire and its famous Lion's Pride Inn have returned to their former glory as a bustling hub of activity.
Today, the only reminders of the Horde's occupation are a few scattered orcish catapults, broken and rotting.
Meanwhile, the humans of Stormwind rejoice as Elwynn once again becomes the pride of the Kingdom of Stormwind.

