== The Third War ==

As the Burning Legion continued it's advance toward Mount Hyjal, Lord Archimonde commanded the corruption of the surrounding forest to weaken the defenses of the protecting night elves.
The Dreadlord Tichondrius used a powerful warlock artifact called the Skull of Gul'dan to desecrate the surrounding forests, resulting in mutated wildlife, corrupted ancients and a polluted environment, creating Felwood.

The recently freed Illidan Stormrage, tasked by his beloved Tyrande to hunt down the invading demons, was told by Arthas Menethil that he could use the skull to not only halt the advancing corruption, but increase his own power as well.
His desire for magic driving him, Illidan braved the dangers of Felwood and took the skull, stopping the corruption from spreading.
Illidan then defeated Tichondrius, but was banished by his brother Malfurion for using demonic power.

== Cataclysm ==

Although no large villages or major cities exist, Felwood is populated by many Emerald Circle outposts, showing their increased presence and success.
The furbolgs and satyrs of Felwood have small encampments, and the Alliance, the Horde, and the druids of the Cenarion Circle have set up an outpost, an encampment, and a homestead in order to try to cure the woods and provide travel through the area.
Notably, the druids have cleansed a patch of northern Felwood that is now called Whisperwind Grove, even containing an uncorrupted moonwell.
The demon Xaravan seeks to undermine the circle's efforts from within.
Talonbranch Glade expanded considerably, being reinforced by Alliance Worgen.
The Horde goblins in Irontree Clearing have come into conflict with the elves and worgen, serving as the only Horde outpost in Felwood.
Meanwhile, the volatile experiments on Felwood's oozes by Winna Hazzard has resulted in the catastrophic loss of Bloodvenom Post and it's people.
Altsoba Ragetotem was the only survivor.
Lastly, the demon hunter Feronas Sindweller, former student of Illidan, seeks to continue his master's work and slay the remaining demons of Felwood.

