== Ancient history ==

In the years that the Titans were on Azeroth, the Vale of Eternal Blossoms was a place Freya created and experiment with forms of life, like Un'Goro Crater and Sholazar Basin.
All three locations were places where the power of the Well of Eternity had coalesced.
The Wild Gods emerged from these cradles of life.

At the same time, they were fighting the Old Gods and their servants, the mantid, so they created the mogu to be guardians of the Vale and fight off the waves of mantid.
When the Old Gods were defeated and the Titans became silent, the mogu continued their work until the Curse of Flesh swept through the land.
Unsure of what to do, the mogu started forming into clans and began fighting with each other, until Lei Shen rose and united the clans.
Lei Shen and his mogu enslaved the creatures of Pandaria and forced them to build the Great Wall to block the mantid from his new empire, and protect the Vale at the same time.

The jinyu had their beginnings in the Vale of Eternal Blossoms, evolving from murlocs fortunate enough to live near the enchanted pools of the Vale.
The magic of the pools expanded their minds and grew their bodies, until they became one of the great ancient cultures of Pandaria.
At some time following the departure of the Titans, but before the rise of Lei Shen, the jinyu empire ruled over Pandaria from the Vale of Eternal Blossoms.
During the reign of mogu emperor Lei Shen, the mogu invaded the jinyu kingdoms and slaughtered all who opposed them, presumably wresting from them control of the Vale.

When the mogu were overthrown by the pandaren, the capital was moved east to the Jade Forest, and the Vale's gates were closed off to the outside world.
Within the Vale, a small group of specially chosen caretakers known as the Golden Lotus kept watch over the Vale, keeping it pristine and safe, with occasional help from the Shado-Pan.

Shortly before the Great Sundering, Emperor Shaohao traveled to the Vale after having purged himself of his burdens, and it was in the Vale that Shaohao became one with the land to save Pandaria from the Sundering.
It is said that all the trees in the vale blossomed as he entered, and continued to blossom for thousands of years.

== Mists of Pandaria ==

In more recent times, the Golden Lotus have become increasingly concerned after spotting mogu scouts that somehow circumvented the gates.
They are in need of the Shado-Pan's aid again, and perhaps new strangers as well, should they prove worthy of the privilege.
They quickly discover that the mogu intend something grander than simple scouting within the Vale.
Xin the Weaponmaster has gathered several Mogu clans under his banner at Mogu'shan Palace and the Shao-Tien to the west have begun a full-scale assault on the Vale, and their plot ties in with the return of the master of all mogu, the dreaded Thunder King himself.

== Bleeding Sun ==

The Golden Lotus learned that a child within the Vale was destined to join their order, but after testing several pandaren children at the Shrine were unable to locate the child.
Chi-Ji then appeared and found his way to Dezco's sons, announcing that one of them was destined to serve the vale.
The Tauren unwilling to be departed from either of his children decided to leave the Vale and return to Mulgore in secret.
However he was intercepted by Mokimo the Strong, Weng the Merciful and Rook who choose to protect until he had left.
However the group was ambushed by the Shao-Tien mogu, and in the end only one of Dezco's two sons survived.
While Dezco was free to leave for Mulgore, he decided to give Redhorn to Mokimo in order for him to serve the Vale and the Golden Lotus.

== Vol'jin: Shadows of the Horde ==

Following the rebirth of the Thunder King, Lei Shen ordered the Zandalari to begin the process of resurrecting his generals.
Learning this Vol'jin, Tyrathan Khort, and the Shado-pan allies sought to prevent the resurrection of Warlord Kao.
However despite their best efforts the group was captured, Brother Dao and Brother Shan used as two of the four sacrifices and Warlord Kao was reborn.
The quick actions of Vol'jin and Khal'ak protected the lives of Chen Stormstout and Brother Cuo from the Mogu's wrath.
Disgruntled at this Warlord Kao directed the Zandalari to return him to his master and the group, prisoners and all, departed for the Isle of Thunder.

== Siege of Orgrimmar ==

The Vale's desecration by the Horde excavation and subsequent unearthing of the Heart of Y'Shaarj by Garrosh has stirred the final Sha prime, the Sha of Pride.
The immense corruption laid waste to the once beautiful landscape, and the lesser sha now roam the swath.
Mogu'shan Palace and the mogu statues were also damaged.
The Eternal Blossoms, the namesake of the Vale, started to die despite having once been said to never wilt.

The water pools have been warped by the Sha energies and reformed into an elemental horror, Immerseus.

The August Celestials have determined that they will work together to rebuild the Vale.
By the time of the Iron Horde's invasion of Azeroth, the Vale has been cleansed.

	