== Sanctuary of Malorne

The Sanctuary of Malorne is an ancient shrine to the demigod Malorne that was destroyed by the invading elementals.

The earliest record of Malorne is in the tauren myth The White Stag and the Moon.
It describes how Malorne, being hunted by the tauren, bargained with Elune in exchange for help.
Malorne accepted Elune's help and loved her as part of the deal.

Another version of the tale says that Malorne fell in love with the goddess of the moon during the world's first nightfall.
Her light guided him through the woods and showed him he was not alone. It banished fear and brought hope.
Many creatures have loved the moon and pursued her to madness.
She grants light as she will, on her own timetable, and moonlight cannot be captured or possessed.
Even so, night after night, the White Stag chased her across the skies.
He grew so swift and strong that at last he succeeded in reaching her.
She was so moved by his devotion and beauty that she made him her consort.
To this day he loves the wilds best when they are lit by her radiance.

Whatever the truth may be, eventually Malorne became Elune's consort. Elune gave birth to Cenarius from that relationship.
Because Ysera the Dreamer agreed to act as Cenarius' foster mother, she has often been mistaken for the demigod's true mother.
As a result, there are also rumors that she and Malorne had a romantic relationship.
However, such rumors are baseless, though Ysera had a deep affection and respect for the demigod.
He was one of nature's mightiest champions and a frequent visitor to the Emerald Dream.

During the War of the Ancients, Cenarius appealed to Malorne and the other demigods of Azeroth to join the battle against the Burning Legion.
After much debate, Cenarius persuaded them to unite under the command of Captain Jarod Shadowsong, who was leading a large army of night elves and other creatures against the Legion.
Cenarius had gone into a frenzy seeing Ursol, Ursoc, Aviana, and Agamaggan die.
Cenarius crushed hundreds of felguards and felhunters. The demons finally got hold of Cenarius, but before the demons could slay him, Malorne came into the fray blinding all demons with his majestic white flashing body.
Malorne's hooves crushed many demons, while his antlers killed many others.
Malorne defended his son Cenarius, and with a look toward the elves as if telepathically commanding them to come for his son, Jarod Shadowsong and others dragged Cenarius to safety.

Malorne's fury might have begun to turn the tide against the Burning Legion, had Archimonde not appeared.
Black lightning struck the land around Malorne, baking it, then green fire from the ground engulfed Malorne, burning at his coat, while the land and rock formed giant hands that pinned his four legs to the ground.
Archimonde swelled in size matching Malorne's height.
Malorne freed himself from his magical trap, and charged Archimonde with his antlers, causing tremors and lightning as demons and Azeroth' races nearby shook and fell to the ground flat on their backs with astonishment.
Malorne and Archimonde battled for some time, until, finally, Archimonde managed to seize Malorne and with great force snapped his neck.
Cenarius's brave rescuer and father, limp and lifeless, was tossed aside by Archimonde.
Malfurion knowing Cenarius was unconscious and that Archimonde had just slain Malorne, cast a spell that engulfed most of Archimonde's body with vines.
The Archdemon, analytical as always, decided to retreat by vanishing in a green flare of flames that consumed the vines.

Shortly thereafter, Alexstrasza, Ysera, and Soridormi, along with their dragonflights, joined the War of the Ancients.
Ysera came to a screeching halt at the sight of Malorne and opened wide her brilliant jade eyes (one of only a few times she did so in recorded history) with a deafening shriek.
As she tore through the carnage to her friend, thousands of demons were thrown in all directions with her paws and wings.
Her rampage continued, making her way through to her goal, until she came still, her chin on Malorne's head; sobs could be heard as She of the Dreaming mourned the White Stag's end.
