== Shrine of Aviana

Shrine of Aviana is a shrine built to honor the winged demigoddess Aviana.

Aviana found her way to G'Hanir, the Mother Tree, a fount of life that was the first thing Freya created within the Emerald Dream.
She grew enchanted with it, as it was more than a tree; it was a source of life, healing, and peace.
Aviana spent years melding her power into the tree, and soon all winged creatures of Azeroth dreamed of spending the afterlife flying through its branches.
Her spirit became tied with G'Hanir, and in time this would have lasting consequences.

When the red dragon Korialstrasz, trapped in his mortal disguise Krasus, was unable to fly, Aviana gifted him a feather which granted him temporary wings.
During the War of the Ancients, Aviana was one of many Ancient Guardians who came to the aid of the night elves in defense of their world.
Though the shock of their attack initially gave them an edge, the endless numbers of the Burning Legion eventually overwhelmed many of them.
Aviana was knocked from the sky and Rhonin witnessed her lifeless body fall when a large group of demons attacked her.
The doomguard surrounded her and pierced her body with their spears. When Aviana was killed, her realm tree G'Hanir died.
The first druids found her body among the carnage, and bore it up to the highest mountain. She was laid to rest just outside the Shrine of Aviana, within a circle of sacred stones.

For ten thousand years Aviana drifted formless in the Emerald Dream while the mortal races continued to worship her; the Druids of the Talon in particular focused their worship around her and learned to take the forms of raven and crows.
Her children, the harpies, descended into violence and barbaric behaviour, and eventually forsook their parent for other, darker masters, or struck out on their own.
Some worshippers believed Aviana to have survived her death at the hands of demons, and others claimed to have actually had contact with her.
However, this is unlikely, unless it was through the Emerald Dream.
Although G'Hanir died when she did, Aviana was able to give mortal druids a branch from the tree.
Its connection to the Emerald Dream serves as a healing and stabilizing influence on Azeroth.
