== Sulfuron Spire

Sulfuron Spire is the fortress of Ragnaros and the entrance to the Firelands

The Firelands is the molten domain forged by the titans to house Ragnaros and his wayward minions.
Following Deathwing's emergence into Azeroth, Ragnaros and his servants surged onto the slopes of Mount Hyjal before being driven back by the sacred mountain's valiant defenders.
Now Ragnaros is rallying his loyalists to defend the Firelands from Azeroth's champions.

The ash-choked Firelands is the least hospitable of the elemental domains.
What serves as air in this harsh place is laden with scalding, noxious fumes.
The only safe havens from the Firelands' ever-churning magma ocean are islands of jagged rock.
Yet even the dangers of this merciless landscape pale in comparison to the raging fury of the elementals who dwell there.

In the ages since the titans ordered Azeroth, the Firelands has served as a prison - not only for the mighty Firelord, Ragnaros, but also for the flame-born legions who serve him without question.
The elementals had spent the innumerable years of their imprisonment reveling in the chaos innate to their being, until the Cataclysm ruptured the barriers between the Firelands and Azeroth.
With the world still reeling from the disaster, Ragnaros and his minions have made it their goal to set aflame the World Tree Nordrassil, one of the remaining symbols of healing in the shattered lands of Azeroth.

Victory against the Firelord's servants is a possibility, however slim.
While the druids of the Cenarion Circle and their allies work to establish a permanent foothold in the Firelands at the Molten Front, brave heroes fighting under the banner of the Avengers of Hyjal hope to push through the gates of Ragnaros's lair, Sulfuron Keep, and face off against the Firelord himself.
Ragnaros bristles with unfathomable powers within the safety of his bastion, a far cry from his \"borrowed\" sanctuary in Blackrock Mountain's Molten Core.
Here, surrounded by hand-picked followers and cradled amid the sweltering heat that boils forth from the ground and sky, he is an elemental lord in his prime.
If Ragnaros cannot be defeated, then a conflagration unlike anything ever seen will erupt from the Firelands and engulf the whole of Azeroth in fire and ash for millennia to come.
