== World of Warcraft ==

Thunder Bluff was settled fairly recently by the tauren, who successfully drove out the marauding Centaur from their lands.
Thunder Bluff is the first city of its kind; for centuries, the tauren wandered the plains as nomads, unable to claim a permanent home.
All Horde visitors are welcome here, and the expertise of the tauren in professions ranging from leatherworking to shamanism, druidism to hunting are all practiced and taught here.
Unfortunately, the central location of the Thunder Bluff also makes it easily accessible to members of the Alliance.
Thus, it is often one of the easier Horde capitals for Alliance players to raid, with Baine being killed long before Horde reinforcements even become an issue.

Some time prior the Lich King's awakening, Thunder Bluff's Pools of Vision became haunted by an element rumored to be summoned by Magatha.
The city was visited by Rehgar Earthfury and his two gladiators - Broll and Lo'Gosh who destroyed the element and eventually escaped from slavery.
A human assassin from Assassin's League also visited Magatha in order to learn the location of Lo'Gosh.

== The Shattering: Prelude to Cataclysm ==

Following Cairne’s death in a duel with Warchief Garrosh Hellscream, Thunder Bluff was briefly seized in a coup by Magatha Grimtotem and elements of her tribe.
Thunder Bluff became sabotaged by the Grimtotem Clan assassins.
Their targets were experts in weapons, powerful druids, or shamans.
They headed to the Spirit Rise, where The Skychaser clan's members were all murdered.
The Forsaken below were supporting the Grimtotem, thus they needn't be worried.
The hunters of the Hunter Rise were also killed and some others who could lift a weapon was also killed to struck fear to remaining tauren.
The reign of Grimtotems was short lived however.
Thanks to the effort of Jevan Grimtotem and Jaina Proudmoore, Baine was able to rally an army and buy weapons needed to defeat the Grimtotem in Thunder Bluff.
In retaliation, Cairne's son, Baine, launched a brilliant counterattack using a fleet of zeppelins.
After he strategically divided Magatha's forces, Baine recaptured Thunder Bluff and assumed his role as the high chieftain of the tauren.
Having recovered from the recent unrest, the capital is once again a bastion of peace and security for Kalimdor's tauren.
Magatha and her loyalists were sent to an exile.
Jevan became the leader of the Grimtotem who remained with the Horde and he remained in Thunder Bluff.
