== Burning Crusade ==

Very little history is known of Azuremyst Isle and the surrounding islands.
Not visited often by the night elves and tauren of Kalimdor due to their out-of-the-way location, the isles' indigenous creatures have been left to their own devices over the centuries.
This is also the reason why the other races have not yet noticed the crashed dimensional ship that lies scattered across the islands, now used by the surviving draenei as a set of bases and outposts.

Some civilization did exist on the island before the draenei arrived.
On the southern Silvermyst Isle, a dock and house of night elf architecture marks the dwelling of a family of night elves who made their home here.
In addition, a clan of furbolgs live in the central island.
Due to being so far removed from their cousins in Kalimdor, these furbolgs have remained uncorrupted, though they have recently been driven out of their ancestral holdings.

Additionally, ancient night elven ruins predating the Sundering are found scattered about both Azuremyst and Bloodmyst, all of them now inhabited by vile naga.The night elves have mostly abandoned these islands in favor of mainland Kalimdor.

== Cataclysm ==

After the Cataclysm, rumors had spread that the draenei withstood the breaking of the world, and that refuge could be found on Azuremyst Isle.
Human refugees arrived in lost humility at first, in ones and twos, by leaky boat and makeshift raft, risking the unknown to flee the horribly known.
In the beginning, the draenei had aided as they could, giving the refugees a place outside the Exodar, healing them, and sharing food and water.
But then the outcasts had begun sending out word to find their friends and families, and the call echoed throughout Kalimdor: \"The Prophet holds Azuremyst safe. The Prophet foresaw the Cataclysm and will make everything right.\" and the refugee camp quickly grew and boasted a thousand exiles. 
When the draenei tested the nearly repaired Exodar, the refugees thought the draenei were going to leave Azeroth, and started rioting.
The riots escalated and both human and draenei were wounded in the conflict.
The riots were stopped when High Prophet Velen spoke collectively to both sites, and not long after the refugees started returning to their former homes, to help rebuilt the world after the Cataclysm.
