== First War ==

At the start of the war, Kilrogg Deadeye and Cho'gall led the first attack on the stronghold of Stormwind but lost.

It was the humans' main base of operations and the last city to fall to the Orcish Horde's offensive during the First War.

Around the year 3 or 4, King Llane was assassinated by Garona in the keep.

Anduin Lothar took what was left of the people and led their exodus to Lordaeron.
While there, Alonsus Faol told him that he had started to raise funds to rebuilt Stormwind once they reclaimed it.

== Reconstruction ==

The city was reconstructed and named New Stormwind, rebuilt on the same location as original Stormwind City.
It is not common to call the city New Stormwind by the time of World of Warcraft, but usually simply Stormwind City.
Two years after the end of the Second War, the orcs reopened the Dark Portal and a small group led by Teron Gorefiend entered the city's library to steal Book of Medivh.
The book however, had been stolen by Alterac soldiers and placed in the mountainous country.

== World of Warcraft ==

The city itself has been rebuilt at least once, and is a marvel of human design and engineering.
From the magnificent Cathedral of Light, which serves as a major spiritual hub, to the awe-inspiring Valley of Heroes, which commemorates the sacrifices of Stormwind’s loyal champions, the city truly represents the courageous heart of humanity.
The city is teeming with merchants who cart around their exotic wares on the cobblestone streets.
In Stormwind Harbor, massive ships regularly come and go to transport cargo and passengers to or from the docks.
Though the city is bustling with trade and business, Alliance citizens can also find peace and relaxation in the preserved natural local attractions of the city and the recreational activities available there.
Tourists and children can be found playing and fishing around the various canals, docks, and lakes through out the city.
Many have even found tranquility outside the metropolitan districts in the more rural city outskirts.
Racially diverse, heavily populated, an epicenter of culture and trade, Stormwind is acknowledged by many to be the very heart of the Alliance.

Stormwind firmly backs the Alliance with its knights, priests, paladins and mages; many of whom served in the three wars against the Horde and the Scourge.
Primarily a human settlement, a fair number of high elves, Ironforge dwarves, and even a few night elves and gnomes dwell here as well.
Stormwind City is the home of the Academy of Arcane Sciences, the only remaining school of wizardry in the east, and the Cathedral of Light, the philosophical capital for those who follow the Holy Light.
These edifices draw healers, priests, paladins and mages to the city, all of whom bolster Stormwind’s vast military.
Its vigilant City Guard keep the peace within the city's towering stone walls

== Political unrest ==

Though Stormwind offered what support and resources they could to the war effort in Lordaeron, they were also beset by their own internal problems.
A disagreement between the Stonemasons and the House of Nobles set off a violent riot in Stormwind City itself.
The chaos led to the murder of Queen Tiffin Wrynn.
The Stonemasons became the terrorist organization known as the Defias Brotherhood and sowed anarchy and terror in the lands of Stormwind for the next decade.
King Varian Wrynn, shaken by his wife's death, fell to a great depression.
Lady Katrana Prestor took advantage of this opportunity and used politics and sorcery to politically outmaneuver the king in the coming years.
Yet in time, King Varian slowly regained his political clout, with his son Anduin Wrynn being his primary inspiration.

After the dust had settled from the Third War, Varian journeyed to Theramore to speak with Lady Jaina Proudmoore regarding Horde/Alliance relations.
En route, he was abducted by the Defias who had been told of his diplomatic trip through a spy rumored to live within the Kingdom of Stormwind itself.
Rumors circulated that he was taken to Alcaz Island and was held captive there.
These rumors were true, yet they were also false, For Varian was split into two people after a botched ritual to subdue Varians' will conducted by Onyxia.
While one of the twins retained all of his Wits, charm, and paitence, the other retained his will, ferocity, and skills in battle, where the latter escaped his captivity.
For the past two years following his abduction, Varian was robbed of his memories and enslaved by a Horde gladiatorial trainer called Reghar Earthfury in Kalimdor.

Shortly after King Varian was kidnapped, Bolvar Fordragon was made Regent-Lord of Stormwind and vowed to find and rescue King Varian at any cost.
Lady Prestor also became a royal adviser, and convinced Highlord Bolvar Fordragon to have King Varian's 10-year-old son, Anduin Wrynn, crowned King of Stormwind, though the actual power remained in Fordragon's hands until either Varian was returned or Anduin reached the Age of Ascension.
While Lord Bolvar did his best to aid the King Anduin with rulling the Kingdom, Lady Prestor secrely worked to sow chaos and discord within the Kingdom behind the scenes while pretending to aid the young king in public.

During this time the second Varian fought his way across Kalimdor to freedom, earning the nickname “Lo’Gosh,” or “ghost wolf,” while battling in the Crimson Ring.
Meanwhile in Stormwind, jubilant throngs of Stormwind's subjects turned out for a massive ceremony to welcome home their king.
However, the Varian that returned was arrogant, frivolous, and markedly interested in Katrana Prestor.
The people of Stormwind had only been informed that the Defias had ransomed the king, but in truth, he was somehow imprisoned and ransomed back by some naga.
In either case, his freedom was bought and paid for by a painful new tax.
Upon his return, however, Varian seemed concerned only with spending more of his people's money, leaving affairs of state by the wayside.
Anduin Wrynn was distressed by his father's change.

Eventully Lo'gosh, with the help of his allies fought their way back to Stormwind, Marching through the gates of Stormwind, Lo'Gosh and his friends were halted by General Marcus Jonathan under the direct jurisdiction of Katrana Prestor, who ordered their immediate arrest and execution as traitors.
One of Varians' allies known as Reginald Windsor succeeded in convincing Marcus of his loyalty to Stormwind as they had previously served together under Turalyon.

Katrana Prestor hastily gathered soldiers only to have the false-Varian tell her that she was disobeying the chain of command and was not in charge of Stormwind.
Entering Stormwind Keep, Lo'Gosh declared Katrana's masquerade was over and called her by her true name: Onyxia.
Revealing her dragon form and transforming multiple guards into dragonspawn, Lo'Gosh and his allies began battle in the great hall of Stormwind Keep.
The arrival of Highlord Bolvar Fordragon along with Anduin greatly aided them in securing the keep but Reginald Windsor was killed moments later by Onyxia.

Lo'Gosh engaged his doppelganger, claiming he threatened the stability of his kingdom and nearly cost the Alliance Thandol Span which came under attack by the Dark Iron dwarves while \"Varian\" did nothing, only to have his doppelganger retort he was starting to repress her spells and regain control of his actions.
Anduin, surprised by seeing two Varians, urged them to stop fighting each other and face the true threat, the brood mother Onyxia.
The great dragon snatched Anduin and teleported them to her lair; daring Varian to follow suit.
Regrouping with their friends, Lo'Gosh and Varian were left to grieve the loss of their son.
Lo'Gosh announced to their friends and allies that the final battle would end in Onyxia's Lair.

Leading a mounted charge, both Varians cut bloody swathes into Onyxia's dragonspawn ranks.
Jaina disabled the impeding magical barriers while Varian and his allies used steel and magic to slay Onyxia's brood.
Eventually they encountered the brood mother herself, with Anduin imprisoned under her iron grip.
Onyxia held Anduin hostage, threatening to kill him if Varian didn't surrender Stormwind over to her.
Anduin urged his father not to give in to her threats and Lo'Gosh agreed to fight and die with Anduin if need be.
Lo'Gosh threw a knife at the dragon's claw to loosen her hold over Anduin.
Anduin fell at a great height but was caught and saved by Broll Bearmantle, who had taken his raven form to catch him mid air.
With Anduin's safety secured, both Varians enguaged Onyixa with all of their might.

Becoming desperate to end the fight, Onyxia began casting the spell she was going to use on Alcaz Island to kill Lo'Gosh, but Lo'Gosh's double responded by stepping in front of the blast, saying he should die because Lo'Gosh was the embodiment of the true Varian.
Not willing to sacrifice his double, Lo'Gosh leapt alongside his other self hoping to save him.
The magic spell became disrupted by having the two Varians in the spell, and after a moment of silence Varian emerged, his two halves fused back together.

Onyxia desperately tries to incinerate him, but Varian swiftly reached Onyxia's head and impaled her with his newly-fused elven sword, Shalamayne.
With Onyxia dead, Varian reunited with his son and friends, telling them their long and noble deeds will be rewarded and Stormwind has been reborn with a new hope for the future.
King Varian then decapitated Onyxia and sent her head to be hung from the ramparts of Stormwind while Broll Bearmantle summoned roots from the ground to seal her lair's entrance and to kill her unhatched progeny.

== After the death of the Lich King ==

Two events happened in Stormwind after the death of the Lich King.
Firstly, the Emerald Nightmare invaded Azeroth and so invaded Stormwind City.
Though many inhabitants were affected by the Nightmare, some, such as Varian, were able to avoid it.
The king of Stormwind was asked to lead the fight against the Nightmare in the Emerald Dream and the battle was successful.
After which, Stormwind City began to rebuild from the chaos caused by the War against the Nightmare.

Later on, a great ceremony was held in honor of the thousands who died in the War against the Lich King.

== Cataclysm ==

When Deathwing returned in Cataclysm, he marked his revival by flying a trip around Azeroth.
His massive power was enough to destroy and reshape the land where he appeared, which resulted in the shattering.
Stormwind City got its share of the destruction when Deathwing swooped into it, crashed down on the city gates and wrecked parts of the city.
The entire park was blown away, and his searing heat caused the towers where he landed to glow red.
Afterward, he flew off, something which puzzles the city guards as they are certain he would be able to destroy the entire city if he had wanted to.
Though Stormwind is still reeling from this brutal attack, the other undamaged districts are more beautiful than ever thanks to their hardworking inhabitants.

== Blood of Our Fathers ==

Not long after Deathwing attacked Stormwind, the Twilight's Hammer cult tried to assassinate both King Varian and his son, Prince Anduin, on the day of Remembrance Day, at the Stormwind City Cemetery which they were lured to by Archbishop Benedictus under the pretense of family bonding, while Benedictus tried to sway the masses to the Twilight hammer's cause.
Later, much to everyone’s surprise, Varian arrived at the Remembrance Day Ceremony.
Limping onto a stage erected for the holiday, disheveled and covered in blood, came King Varian and Prince Anduin, barely holding each other up in their fatigue.
As the realization of their dire state spread, a concerned murmur arose, but Varian raised his hand in a gesture of reassurance, and the crowd grew silent.
It suddenly dawned on Varian that he had never found time to prepare his Remembrance Day speech.
The king paused for just a moment, trying to smile through the pain, and then realized with utmost clarity that he now knew exactly what to say.
He tells the people of Stormwind that though he has his faults, as their king, he has and always will have their best interests in mind.
Even after Deathwing's attack, Stormwind will always remain vigilant and stand defiantly against their enemies.
They will always rebuild from tragedy, and continue to learn from adversity.
Stormwind will continue to grow from every direction, forging a brighter future.
Each day they are alive is a great day, for each generation finds its own way to become the greatest generation that has ever lived and become the heroes of tomorrow.
Varian states that though in the past they relied on strength and steel to forge their destiny, it is not the only way.
In order to restore the world, a time will come when leaders need to be healers instead of warriors, those who mend instead of those who break.
Only then can they truly cure their deep ills and achieve a lasting peace.
Varian watched with pride as his words stirred the hearts of his people.
The populace cheered for King Varian and this new direction for Stormwind.

== Mists of Pandaria ==

As the Alliance achieved a critical victory against the Horde, thwarting the plans of Garrosh to unleash the horrible powers of the Divine Bell, the repairs of the damage caused by Deathwing neared completion.
The front gate towers have been reconstructed, and the statue of Danath Trollbane is back in place and mended to pristine condition.
Stormwind now appears more beautiful than ever.
However, the area where the Park stood still appears black and charred, and the surrounding walls and buildings are still in ruins, reminding everyone of the horrors of Deathwing's power.
It seems unlikely that the destroyed district will ever fully recover, due to the fact that large chunks of land mass are missing.

== Legion ==

The hard-working citizens of Stormwind have been hard at work rebuilding Stormwind Park.
Following the death of King Varian Wrynn at the Broken Shore, His tomb was displayed in a portion of the park as well as a memorial listing the names of fallen Alliance soldiers.

Anduin Wrynn is officially crowned the new king of Stormwind.

</BODY></HTML>"}
