== War of the Three Hammers ==

Ironforge would become the ancient home of the dwarves, whose people lived in peace for many long centuries within the mountain.
However their society grew too large and could no longer be maintained within the confines of their mountain cities.
While the mighty High King, Modimus Anvilmar, ruled over all dwarves with justice and wisdom, three powerful factions had arisen amongst the dwarven society.
The Bronzebeard clan, ruled by Thane Madoran Bronzebeard, held close ties to the High King and stood as the traditional defenders of Ironforge Mountain.
The Wildhammer clan, ruled by Thane Khardros Wildhammer, inhabited the foothills and crags around the base of the mountain and sought to gain more control within the city.
The third faction, the Dark Iron clan, ruled by the sorcerer-thane Thaurissan, hid within the deepest shadows under the mountain and plotted against both their Bronzebeard and the Wildhammer cousins.

While the three clans were able to live in a tenuous peace, the death of High King Anvilmar (from old age) plunged the three clans into war with the prize being Ironforge itself.
After many years of fighting the Bronzebeards, who had the largest standing army, emerged victorious and banished the Dark Irons and Wildhammers from under the mountain.
Even as the Wildhammers founded their own kingdom of Grim Batol, the Dark Iron plotted in secret from the newly created home within the Redridge Mountains.

Seeking to claim all of Khaz Modan for their own the Dark Irons under Thaurissan and his sorceress wife, Modgud, launched a two-pronged assault against both Ironforge and Grim Batol.
The Dark Irons had nearly taken control of both kingdoms when Madoran and Khardros were able to snatch victory and push the Dark Irons back.
While Thaurissan survived and fled with his forces, his wife Modgud was killed by Khardros.

With common cause between them Ironforge and Grim Batol marched south with the intention of destroying the Dark Irons once and for all.
In turn Thaurissan seeking a powerful minion that would ensure his victory accidentally called forth Ragnaros the Firelord, whose rebirth ultimately saw Thaurissan killed and the Dark Irons enslaves to the summoned elemental.
The combined Bronzebeard and Wildhammer armies halted their advance and turned back towards kingdoms being unwilling to face the Ragnaros's wrath.
Upon learning that Modgud's death had left an evil stain upon Grim Batol King Bronzebeard offered to let the Wildhammers live within the borders of Ironforge, but the the Wildhammers refused and would find home within Lordaeron.

Desiring to retain relations and trade with their cousins, the dwarves of Ironforge constructed two massive arches, the Thandol Span, to bridge the gap between Khaz Modan and Lordaeron.
Bolstered by mutual trade, the two kingdoms prospered.
After the deaths of Madoran and Khardros, their sons jointly commissioned two great statues in honor of their fathers.
The two statues would stand guard over the pass into the southlands, which had become volcanic in the wake of Ragnaros' scorching presence.
They served as both a warning to all who would attack the dwarven kingdoms, and as a reminder of what price the Dark Irons paid for their crimes.
The two kingdoms retained close ties for some years, but the Wildhammers were much changed by the horrors they witnessed at Grim Batol.
They took to living above ground on the slopes of Aerie Peak, instead of carving a vast kingdom within the mountain.
The ideological differences between the two remaining dwarven clans eventually led to their parting of ways.

== The Second War and aftermath ==

Prior to the start of the Second War Ironforge had received missives from Lordaeron.

In the years following the Horde's defeat, the leaders of the various Alliance nations began to bicker and argue over territorial holdings and decreasing political influence.
King Terenas of Lordaeron, the patron of the Alliance, began to suspect that the fragile pact they had forged during their darkest hour would not stand for long.
Terenas had convinced the Alliance leaders to lend money and laborers to help rebuild the city of Stormwind that was destroyed during the orcish occupation of Azeroth.
Those taxes, coupled with the high expense of maintaining and operating the numerous orc internment camps, led many leaders - Genn Greymane of Gilneas in particular - to believe that their kingdoms would be better off seceding from the Alliance.

To make matters worse, the brusque high elves of Silvermoon rescinded their allegiance to the Alliance, stating that the humans' poor leadership led to the burning of their forests during the Second War.
Though Terenas tactfully reminded the Elves that nothing of Quel'Thalas would have remained if not for the hundreds of valiant humans who'd given their lives to defend it, the Elves stubbornly decided to go their own way.
In the wake of the Elves' departure, Gilneas and Stromgarde pulled stake and seceded as well.

Though the Alliance was falling apart, King Terenas still had allies that he could count on.
Both Admiral Proudmoore of Kul Tiras and the young King Varian Wrynn of Azeroth remained committed to the Alliance.
Also, the wizards of the Kirin Tor, led by the Archmage Antonidas, pledged Dalaran's steadfast support to Terenas' rule.
Most pleasingly, perhaps, was the pledge of the mighty Dwarven King Magni Bronzebeard, who vowed that the Dwarves of Ironforge would forever owe a debt of honor to the Alliance for liberating Khaz Modan from the Horde's control.

== The Third War ==

The dwarves of Ironforge battled the Undead Scourge and sent units to aid the rest of the Lordaeron against the undead threat.
Even after the fall of Lordaeron Ironforge remained steadfast in it's commitments and aided their allies throughout the Third War.
During the war Magni learned that Muradin had died and that Arthas himself was responsible.
Magni was overcome with grief at the news of Muradin's demise, but he and the youngest brother, Brann, remained steadfast in their desire to continue serving the dwarven people.

Some time after High Inquisitor Fairbanks and Alexandros Mograine visited King Magni.
To avenge Muradin, Magni forged the Ashbringer to oppose Frostmourne, Arthas, and the undead.
While Magni never took much stock in the belief that Master dwarven blacksmiths could impart emotions into the weapons they create, standing before The Great Anvil, he found himself thinking of how he would not see Muradin again.
He thus harnessed all of his rage, fury, the desire for vengeance, and willed them into being with each strike of his hammer.
When he was finished, he gave Mograine the finest blade that had ever been crafted by his hand.
This would confirm that he is, at the very least, a skilled weaponsmith of the highest degree.

For at least part of the Third War, Magni fought alongside Chen Stormstout and declared him to be a friend of Ironforge.

== Pearl of Pandaria ==

Li Li Stormstout and Strongbo journeyed to Ironforge, where he sensed that the earth elementals in the area were in pain.
Even after being informed of the dwarven origins Strongbo maintained that the earth was in distress and that he could feel the pressure building, though Li Li pointed out that it didn't mean the dwarves were responsible.

The two pandaren ended up attending Brewfest and after fighting back the Dark Iron dwarves met with King Magni, who revealed that Chen that helped him during the Third War.
The King further stated that any friend of Chen's was a friend of Khaz Modan and upon Li Li's request, Magni provided the pandaren with a zeppelin and two ram mounts.

== The Shattering: Prelude to Cataclysm ==

Following the civil unrest amongst the Dwarves, the Bronzebeard clan emerged victorious.
For the following years after the war King Magni Bronzebeard could be found in the High Seat, as the Dwarven leader of Ironforge.
However, in recent times King Magni Bronzebeard had fallen ill to a Titanic curse.
This left Ironforge in a state of unrest, but soon the paticipants of the War of the Three Hammers returned to Ironforge, to establish the Council of Three Hammers, with representatives from each of the clans, consisting of Moira Thaurissan, Falstad Wildhammer and Muradin Bronzebeard.
Together, they have set aside their differences in order to rule the Dwarven city of Ironforge.

== Fire and Iron ==

After returning from Outland to Azeroth around the time of the Shattering, Kurdran returned to Aerie Peak and learned about the situation in Ironforge.
He told Falstad, who was chosen by King Wrynn, that he will represent the Wildhammer clan in the Council of Three Hammers, an act not fair to Falstad as he has been leading the dwarves for centuries.
Kurdran then traveled to Ironforge to represent the Wildhammer clan in the Council of Three Hammers.
Tensions were running high between the Wildhammer clan and the other two clans in Ironforge as they were resentful of the Wildhammer's nonconformist tendencies as well as fearful of the false rumors circulating that said the Wildhammers were using barbaric brutal tactics on their enemies as well as their allies who didn't comply with their demands.
Eventually the tensions led to a fight between a Wildhammer and a Bronzebeard that ended in somebody's death.

The Bronzebeard clan and the Dark Iron clan had proposed to reforge the Hammer of the High King as an act of unity between the three clans and to ease the rising tensions in Ironforge but in order to do so, they required the scepter that belonged in Kurdran's possession.
Though Kurdran was reluctant to part with the scepter for sentimental reasons and saw the reforging of the hammer as a waste of time, he nonetheless handed over the scepter so that the Wildhammer would be better received in Ironforge.
Still, Kurdran had trouble adjusting to Ironforge as he missed the open skies of the Hinterlands and was not fond of the politicking required of his position.
His troubles were compounded when tensions again rose as a fight broke out between Kurdran and his Wildhammer dwarves and some Dark Iron dwarves, which consequently led to a fire that killed his gryphon Sky'ree.

The hammer would later be reforged as an act of unity between the three dwarven clans, under decree of the Council of Three Hammers.
It was decided that a dark iron smith should reforge the hammer.
A few days before the reforging, the council discovered that the pieces of the hammer might've been fakes.
Yet the majority of the council agreed to continue with the reforging without the public knowing about it being a fake.
Kurdran however, disagreed with the lie.
Later that night, Kurdran would come to where the pieces were stored, and removed the Wildhammer scepter that was to be used as the hammer's handle.
During a conversation with Moira Thaurissan, it was implied that she planned on the Wildhammers alienating the other two clans so that tensions between the Dark Irons and the Bronzebeards would lessen.
Moira informed Kurdran that his brute strength was useless, and only winning hearts and minds mattered in Ironforge.
The night before the reforging, Muradin Bronzebeard advised Kurdran to compromise his principles a little as his beliefs were not only holding himself back, but his clan and the entire city as well.

On the day of the reforging, it was discovered that the handle was missing, and Kurdran admitted he had stolen it.
But instead of letting it be reforged, he smashed the handle with his stormhammer, and it shattered to pieces.
Kurdran declared that the union of the dwarven clans shouldn't start with reforging a hammer that could be fractured again.
Instead, Kurdran proposed that the dwarven clans move forward from the past and unite with a fresh start.
Gladly, Muradin joined him in fracturing the other fragments while Moira did so reluctantly, her plan quietly foiled at such a public event.

Realizing that Falstad was the better dwarf to represent the Wildhammer clan in the Council of Three Hammers, Kurdran decided to step down from his position as Wildhammer representative and traveled to Stormwind to aid King Varian's army.

== Cataclysm ==

With the trouble taken to form the Council of Three Hammers, the dwarves' worries are far from over.
When a surprise attack from the Dark Irons who were suppose to be with the Alliance was engaged, Commander Stonebreaker handles the situation and sends one of his scouts to Ironforge with a note claiming that Moira's Dark Irons had attacked the airfield.
Moira accused Stonebreaker and the messenger of lying, believing that they were trying to take her son's claim to the throne but Muradin vouched for the commander, claiming that he was loyal and honest to Ironforge.
After reviewing the situation and coming with a solution, Moira revealed her discovery that Ambassador Slaghammer had been secretly working for the Twilight's Hammer to undermine her and her \"halfbreed\".

During this time Li Li Stormstout visited the city in order to speak with Magni and got into a brief argument with Moira to Falstad's amusement.

== Legion ==

Four years after King Magni's petrification, Moira was asked by Muradin and some of the priests to talk to Magni, as she often did when times were trying, in the hopes that it would wake him up.
She however felt that it was a fool's errand, still believing that Magni would still not have approved of her ruling, but did so to keep up appearances.
However, to the vast surprise of Moira and Advisor Belgrum, Magni awoke with a mighty crash as a living statue made of diamond.
With a voice like a mountainslide, he told Moira and Belgrum that he now spoke for the land and was a part of Azeroth itself.
Muradin and Falstad also came down to see him.

While the Council of Three Hammers waited for Magni and discussed what the king's return would mean for the political stability of Ironforge upstairs at the High Seat, Magni was taking the time to walk once again through his city, including stopping at the The Great Anvil, seeing the gryphons at the gryphon roost, and kneeling in the pool of the Mystic Ward.
By all laws under the mountain, as long as the rightful ruler was alive, the city belonged to him, but Moira and Falstad knew that the Dark Irons and the Wildhammers would never kneel to a Bronzebeard king.
However, Magni, having just returned to the throne room, replied that he had not come to reclaim his crown.
No longer a king but a servant of Azeroth, he delivered a dire warning about the Burning Legion's return to the three, and that they had to prepare their people—all their people—for what was coming.
He then proclaimed that he had to leave immediately to warn the rest of the Alliance.

</BODY></HTML>"}
	