== World of Warcraft ==

Prior to the Cataclysm, neither the Horde or Alliance sought to use Azshara for much despite it's proximity to Durotar and Ashenvale.
The Horde scout, Ag'tor Bloodfist, helped Horde adventurers down the traitorous Magus Rimtori during the Betrayed quest line.
The sea giant Demigod Arkkoroc and his sons sought help against the Hydra queen Hetaera.
Lastly, the Demon hunter Loramus Thalipedes aided adventurers in battling the Dreadlord Razelikh the Defiler by forging Azsharite weapons.

== Pearl of Pandaria ==

Li Li Stormstout, Strongbo and her uncle Chen Stormstout fought against Zhahara Darksquall and Rahjak on an isle in Azshara.

== The Shattering ==

The Shattering radically changed the balance of power in Azshara.
The Bilgewater Cartel goblins, the Horde's newest ally, have made their home here, building a city into the cliff side, and destroying the Azshara Crater to make way for a large quarry.
To show their loyalty to the Horde, the goblins have reshaped Azshara into a giant Horde symbol.

Having recently gained the mantle of warchief, Garrosh Hellscream is preparing for war to claim all of Kalimdor for the Horde.
The goblins of the Bilgewater Cartel, headquartered in Bilgewater Harbor, are playing their part by building war machines, constructing weapons, and establishing a massive naval harbor within sight of Orgrimmar.
Meanwhile, the night elves aren't content to sit idly by; they fully intend to challenge this unwelcome occupation in Azshara and hopefully stymie a conflict that would otherwise be carried deep into their forests.
Amid all this tension, the Bilgewater Cartel is also out to make a name for itself in true goblin fashion.
What is the best way to show solidarity? Reshape the Bay of Storms into a giant Horde symbol!
From there, a secret lab, an extensive rocketway, and a \"pleasure palace\" with its own golf course are just natural leaps in goblin logic.
Azshara is now the largest terraforming project on Azeroth - whether it's sculpting the terrain to promote Horde propaganda, moving an entire mountain to pillage the minerals underneath, or slapping the face of the trade prince on a nearby crag, there's no question who wears the pants in Azshara these days.

Kalec is rounding up all of the blue dragonflight, as he fears the death of Malygos will be a sign of weakness and Deathwing will send out agents to assassinate the remaining dragons within the flight.
This holds true as the black dragonflight has invaded Azshara to hunt down Azuregos.
Kalec and Azuregos help low level Horde players to repel the invasion.
