

The Undercity was so named many years before the Forsaken claimed it as their own.
Far beneath the palace of Lordaeron, the Undercity held the ancient crypts and catacombs of Lordaeron's royalty, as well as the city's dungeons and sewers.
Although the Undercity was only intended for prisoners and the dead, the poorest of the Lordaeron people lived within.
When the Alliance captured Orgrim Doomhammer, they sent him to the Undercity; sometime later he managed to escape and wandered for many years afterwards.

Lordaeron's Capital City stood for centuries, a monument to humanity's might.
In the Third War, Prince Arthas slew his father, King Terenas, in Lordaeron's throne room and ransacked the city.
He planned to use Lordaeron as his capital on this continent and ordered his minions to expand the catacombs beneath the city.
Then the Lich King summoned Arthas to Northrend and the work was left uncompleted.

During Arthas' exodus, Sylvanas Windrunner broke free of the Lich King’s control and took many banshees and other undead with her.
With Varimathras' assistance she defeated the dreadlords that controlled the city and set her newly dubbed Forsaken to finish Arthas' job in the dungeons.
The Forsaken carved the Undercity and now rule the surrounding countryside.

== The Battle For The Undercity ==

While the forces of the Horde and the Alliance were concentrated on a joint effort at Angrathar the Wrathgate, an uprising broke out within the Undercity.
Demons of the Burning Legion and Forsaken rebels led by the dreadlord Varimathras and Grand Apothecary Putress managed to take control of the Undercity, killing several Forsaken and nearly killing the Dark Lady as well.
In response the Horde led by Sylvanas Windrunner and Warchief Thrall attacked from the front entrance to reclaim the city.
While the Alliance led by Varian and Jaina attacked from Sewers to restore Lordaeron to the Alliance.
The ensuing battle ultimately killed both Varimathras and Putress, along with their fellow demons and Forsaken rebels.

