

All other Azeroth territories taken out of Alliance control had the Horde, the undead, or the demons behind them.
Westfall fell to bitter humans soon after the Second War.
The Defias Brotherhood, led by Edwin VanCleef, attempted to take Elwynn Forest but failed.
Its members chose Westfall as their new home, and the farmers, still shaken from the Horde attacks, put up little resistance.
The Brotherhood found that the time to steal land from their own accepted ruler was when he was too concerned with orcs, undead and demons to realize that a good chunk of the continent was gone.
The rulers at Stormwind, even with knowledge of the Brotherhood's actions, considered other threats to be higher priorities and figured they'd get to Westfall eventually.
They do not know the true threat Westfall presents — or even how much the city would miss the agricultural tributes the farmers made.

Once the breadbasket of the kingdom of Stormwind, the land of Westfall started to grow fallow after years of conflict and neglect had diminished its harvests.
Crops could eventually no longer be cultivated in the fields, and the once-abundant mines were ultimately deserted.
Even the former defenders from Stormwind pulled stake and abandoned the lonely realm when the cost of upkeep became too great.

Due to this lack of military protection, Westfall was all but destroyed by the rebel Defias Brotherhood and its minions; who could easily take control of the poorly defended farmlands and burn their fields and salt the earth.
Employing everything from local superstitions to sabotaging mechanical harvest watchers, the Brotherhood stopped at nothing to scare away trespassers and protect their stolen treasures.
Only the People's Militia, a volunteer military organization, has risen to stand in their way, recruiting young heroes of the Alliance to strike back and regain what has been stolen.
Under Gryan Stoutmantle's command, heroes of the Alliance struck down the leaders of the Defias in the Deadmines, effectively subduing the Brotherhood.
With the People's Militia renaming themselves the Westfall Brigade and moving their troops into Grizzly Hills, it was suggested that the Defias Brotherhood threat died down.

After the War against the Lich King, many people living in Westfall became homeless and bankrupt.
Those who weren't in a military occupation faced especially hard times.
Westfall is now inhabited by transients, homeless Stormwind Citizens and drifters.
The farmlands, still reeling from years of neglect and desolation, are still as barren as ever.
The Westfall Brigade, having returned from the war in Northrend, now seeks to secure the region and restore it to its former glory; but the resurgence of an old and familiar enemy hinder their efforts.
