

After the cataclysmic events that followed the invasion of the Burning Legion, Malfurion Stormrage went missing.
Archdruid Fandral Staghelm took over the leadership of the night elven druids, convincing the Circle of the Ancients in Darkshore that it was time for the night elven people to rebuild the World Tree and regain their cherished immortality.
However, his plan failed because Nozdormu, the source of the night elves immortality, did not bless the tree due to the selfishness of the night elves' wish.

The Circle of the Ancients and powerful druids combined their powers to grow an immense tree in the Veiled Sea.
They called the tree Teldrassil, meaning \"crown of the earth\" in Darnassian.
The night elves made their new home in the boughs of Teldrassil, creating a forest of mighty trees and flowing rivers, bathed in the endless night that fell over the lands of the elves from the dawn of time.

However, the calm of the enchanted forest slowly fallen into the shadow of a sinister presence.
Satyrs, Furbolgs, and other beasts appeared in Teldrassil, occupying all the attention of the vigilant Sentinels and the wise druids to ensure the safety of their new home.
The source of this corruption remained a mystery for some time, until the conflict of the Emerald Nightmare spilled into the waking world.

Malfurion, upon arriving at Darnassus, discovered that a remnant of a great evil was grafted into Teldrassil by Fandral.
By grafting Xavius' fel-tainted branch into Teldrassil Xavius and the evil behind his transformation into the Nightmare Lord were given a tie to both Azeroth and the Emerald Dream

The archdruid managed to remove the branch that was corrupted and eventually restored the tree to what it was supposed to be in the first place.
Alexstrasza, impressed that the tree could prosper alone without her influence or her kin's, blessed it belatedly.
She and Ysera later gave a second blessing during the wedding of Malfurion and Tyrande Whisperwind.
The tree flourishes even more under the gifts from the Life-Binder and She of the Dreaming, even if still being unable to return the night elves' immortality due to the continued absence of any blessing from Nozdormu.

Of late, Teldrassil’s recovery has slowed, and signs of the Nightmare’s corruption have resurfaced.
Already burdened by political tension and the vast destruction unleashed by the Cataclysm, the night elves must now ascertain the cause of their beloved World Tree’s ailment and refocus their efforts on the dire situation facing Azeroth.

It is later revealed that the \"growing corruption\" is actually Teldrassil purging itself of the corruption that has burdened it with taint and perverted it's growth for all of the years it's been in existence.
With the corruption having been buried deep inside Teldrassil, it would have been impossible to strike at the source without killing the world tree itself.
The aspects' blessing has allowed Teldrassil to force the taint to the surface in a form that the night elves can destroy.
The Bough of Corruption was the one last remnant of Xavius that remained to torment the night elf people on Teldrassil and was the source of the Fel Moss that has tainted the gnarlpine, the timberlings, and everything else.

</BODY></HTML>e city, as well as the blood elves and Bilgewater Cartel goblins who have more recently been accepted into the Horde.

== Wrath of the Lich King ==

During the War against the Lich King, Putress betrayed Forsaken.
Sylvanas and her loyal Forsaken took the refuge in Orgrimmar.
From there, Sylvanas, Thrall and horde adventurers returned and liberated Undercity.
During that time, all merchants and services have been shut down as the Warchief prepared for an unavoidable conflict.

== Shattering: Prelude to Cataclysm ==

After the War against the Lich King and War against the Nightmare were over, a great celebration was held in honor of Garrosh and those who died and survived on Northrend.
Nevertheless, raging fire elements burned plenty buildings in Orgrimmar and the city needed to repair.
Thrall asked Gazlowe to do so and determined to set off to Nagrand in order to help raging elements.
Before leaving, in Grommash Hold Thrall appointed Garrosh to lead the Horde.

== Cataclysm ==

Garrosh Hellscream has recently rebuilt most of the city’s architecture, and now Orgrimmar’s fortresses rank among the most imposing on Azeroth.
Spiked metal towers line the city’s streets, and the red-and-black banners of the Horde wave from every post.
Most of the various races have separated into their own districts, from the tauren in the Valley of Wisdom to the trolls in the Valley of Spirits.
Grommash Hold towers over all else, allowing Garrosh Hellscream to keep a close watch on his people.
There is also a district known as the \"Goblin Slums\" near the Valley of Spirits.
There is also a rear gate leading to Azshara.
The Valley of Honor has also become the second trade district, with its own bank, auction house and inn.

== Tides of War ==

With the Cataclysm over and the threat of Deathwing subsided, a summit of the Horde's leaders was held in Orgrimmar.
Here, Garrosh informed his allies about his desire to forcibly expel the Alliance from Kalimdor, and claim the continent for the good of the Horde.
Garrosh intended to scour Theramore from the continent, and stunt the Alliance's military presence.
With that done, he then aims to take the night elves' land.

After the successful destruction of Theramore, the battle force returned to Orgrimmar to celebrate their victory. Many cheers rose to Garrosh's victory.

== Escalation ==

Orgrimmar is effectively put under martial law, as Garrosh continues to opress the non-orc members of the city.
All non-orc districts of the city lose most of their supplies and are heavily guarded by the Kor'kron, under suspicion that they might be working with the rebels.
The supply lines to Orgrimmar from the Northern Barrens are cut off and Vol'jin has taken the strategic settlement of Razor Hill from Garrosh's loyalists, essentially putting the city under threat of siege from the rebellion to the south as well as the Alliance armada amassing to the east.

== Siege of Orgrimmar ==

During the Siege of Orgrimmar, the city is put under siege by the forces of the Horde rebels and the Alliance.
Kor'kron barricades block access to most of the city's districts.
Vol'jin's revolutionary forces have entrenched themselves along the main road, launching a frontal assault on the city's gates to break into the Valley of Strength.
Alliance frigates storm the Bladefist Bay and landing parties attempt to capture the docks around Orgrimmar.
Invading forces discover a massive underground compound constructed by Garrosh's forces for his own purposes.
Skirmishes at the gates occurred before a full-scale battle erupted between the forces led by Vol'jin and the defenders still loyal to Garrosh.
Despite Vol'jin's attempts to ram the gate and attack the walls with siege engines, the walls could not be breached. The arrival of a combined rebel and Alliance armada under the command of Lor'themar Theron, Varian Wrynn, Jaina Proudmoore, and Sylvanas Windrunner disabled Orgrimmar's naval defenses.
Eventually the Kor'kron were pushed back into the gates and the arrival of Night Elf reinforcements under Tyrande Whisperwind.
Night Elf glaive throwers brought the gate down, and the allied forces charged into Orgrimmar.
The Valley of Strength was quickly liberated, and the death of General Nazgrim brought the upper city under Alliance/rebel control.
The Underhold eventually fell when adventurers defeated and imprisoned the Warchief Garrosh.
Vol'jin was quickly nominated and initiated as the new Warchief by Thrall and the other Horde leaders.
Alliance forces left the city, and the rebels began rebuilding the damage that was done during the siege.

== Warlords of Draenor ==

Following the deposition of Garrosh, rebel forces began rebuilding the damage done to Orgrimmar during the siege and members of the Horde of all races began moving back to the city, resulting in a major population increase.
The newly elected Warchief Vol'jin has also taken up residence in Orgrimmar, ruling the Horde from Grommash Hold, while members of all races have formed a new city guard.
The Underhold has largely been vacated and its arsenal destroyed, and the trade routes previously blockaded during the siege have been restored and the city has begun to prosper again.
The Valley of Spirits and the Valley of Wisdom have also been liberated from Kor'kron control and have returned to normal.

</BODY></HTML>"}
